Yeah.
So welcome to the next problem set, which is E.
And so she's a dish of course and they sit and dishes number one two in initially for each i.e. dish
i.e. has a it is either one, two or three pieces of she on it are you will perform the following operations
repeatedly and then all the pieces of sushi are you didn't really die then choose the numbers are going
to end with equal probabilities and let it be the outcome.
If there are some pieces of sushi on dish, I eat to one of them.
If there is nothing, do nothing.
It will find an expected number of times the operation is performed before all the pieces of sushi are
eaten.
These kind of problems are a little tricky, which involves us to find the expected number of times.
The expectation value, basically.
Go for this.
Firstly, I would suggest you do.
And head on to Google and find out what this expectation means if you are not aware of it.
Eight.
But most of us are aware of it.
Of course, we have already factored in plurality and statistics.
So let me quickly give you an explanation and a definition of expected values.
And then we also show you why is expected value not a genuine thing?
So.
Yes.
I wasn't expecting value of any.
Event X, so it is actually VFX into.
So basically it's take the summation of the plurality of happening of the division into the event itself
to be X into x eight.
So what is expectation value?
So this is in terms of real numbers, right.
And into.
Be accessible won't be into exit the number eight or in the real values.
What we see is that the expectation value of any index is being to be X, which is the plurality of
it.
Index it.
Basically.
Well, but this is not what it actually is.
So let me give you a quick example of it.
What is example behind this?
It is.
Let's say I'm ruling a dying guy has six faces.
So what is expected?
What is expected outcome of their day, right?
What is expected outcome of their diet?
Here we have.
So what are the possible outcomes, guys?
And then I can have one, two, three, four, five or six, eight.
So one with the plurality of one by six plus two.
So when you play those two with the variety of one by six plus three, with the video one by six plus
four, with a variety of one by six plus five with the birdie one by six plus six with the video of
one by six.
So all of them have equal ratings as of now because it's an unbiased going.
What we had here is one plus two plus three plus four plus five plus six.
Right.
Which is equal to how much?
11.
Okay.
The six explosive were two.
It is kind of.
One divided by six, which is 3.50 delegates.
And 3.5 I would be expected through and someone through a 3.5.
Boys not age.
So this is what mathematics expectation means that what is the expected value of anything?
It is equal to the probability of all the events into the event itself.
It is taking it with the event and adding all of them.
It's a property of all the events.
And then they're taking their.
Permissions always.
This is a normal introduction to expectations and there are many expected and many problems expectation
and they are quite tricky.
I would like to this year to kind of head out to this was a blog that I read.
It was from Eric Took on code forces and you just move on to that and try solving those problems.
So I think he had me two blocks on there and just funds.
So.
Yeah.
But what we have in this problem, we have three types of sushi.
A two A's from 1 to 3 only.
And.
What the guy can do is he just rules the night and from when do any get to random number, which is
an index?
From that index, he picks up the sushi Everest.
If it is a good strategy, then it becomes a good story to hear because of untrue shooting.
Or if it is zero, it doesn't move.
If it is true, it becomes one.
If it is one, it becomes zero eight.
We picks exactly 1204 it.
So for example, in this one, one, one, let's talk about this.
So the expected number of operations before the first piece of sushi is eaten is one after the index
next victim of an operation before the second trashes it.
And it's 1.5 after the next victim number operation.
We will touch her.
She is eaten is the eight who does the expected operation is is 5.5.
So let me give you another way of thinking this problem.
What we will say is we have.
We have four types of shoes, right?
Let's say these represents the count of these swooshes.
So we have z0e.
Okay, let me write full values, which is zero one, two, three.
Let's say I have some zero number of hashes, one number of sushi's do, number of sushi's and three
number of sushi eight.
So before this, we have some observations to make it no matter what is the order of the sushi.
There it is.
One, two or two, one.
It doesn't matter.
The order of the sushi does not matter.
Hey, if I have this.
Or they call it.
Yeah.
If I have vendors and dishes and their orders are like by muted, it doesn't matter.
The answer won't change anything because everything is will equal programming and things will go.
That was one of the observation to me.
So now let's say we have these three types of shows zero, one, two and three.
They so.
What is zero zero is the total number of species which are of dishes which have zero dishes.
When is it a rhythm of dishes with bunches to the total number of dishes with two associates and 302
number of dishes with dishwashers?
Eight.
So what we'll do is we will see what is expected of 012 and.
These are issues.
If I have these many shoes and what is expected?
Well, if I can find out.
Right, this will be equal to one less.
Why am I taking this one case?
Because I am making a move.
So whenever you make a move, you have to include that moving your expected value because you are making
a move.
I am making a move.
And then what else is give me the expected values for other states for which I can go to.
Right.
So.
If they do this on the new lane.
So it is one.
What is the other states on which I can go?
I can go to a state that means, let's say I, I randomly threw a day and it gave me an 000.
It basically gave me an index which has zero issue on it.
It is probability of zero.
It means the probability such that I'm on one of the indexes which has zero to shoot into AP.
Zero as it is.
Because if I pick because if I'm on a zero sushi dish, I cannot make any sushi at eight because there
isn't any to pick.
012, three.
Probability of one.
If I'm picking one sushi and it becomes.
Okay.
Not putting it this way that if if I have just picking up one degree from any one of their dishes,
what happens is the count of dishes with one reduces by one and the count of sushi with zero increased
by one.
Similarly, two in three remains the same.
Why?
Because let's say I had this 102 and I picked up this number two zero, so it becomes 0020, had one
sushi, now zero had sushi.
So there are two species which do not have any.
So there are two dishes which do not have any pushing them to the count of zero increases and one decreasing.
So that's what we do rate when we find expected values.
What we do is we take the probability into the event itself.
It be a XY.
And what's the third one we have?
Royalty of two in the deep of.
Zero as it is one plus one, because we are picking up one tissue from each containing two sources very
similarly.
Three and we're the last step and that I pick as I figure three sushi rate as a right because your issue
from the dishwasher dish goes zero one as it is to my replacement because three will be converted to
two and three additives.
I know it's kind of tricky solution and you are not aware of the expected values, but first of all,
I just suggest you to move on to the expectation, values, opportunities and two idioms and just read
them out and then quickly come back to it and try and grasp what some famous examples of expectation
values are.
Nice.
Very, very nice.
I.
So this is my reconciliation.
You know, here there's another there's another thing that we've already explained here.
We have four variables, but we actually don't need for variables rate by because always zero.
That's one plus two plus three will be equal to in.
Eight.
Because all the dishes would contain added zero one or two or three bushes in them.
So let me simplify this, a.
It requires a relation, let's call them in shorter terms.
Let's call them Z or let's say ABCD 8284041, two, two C and 3ddb.
ABCD is equal to one plus.
Probability of zero velocity.
Where does this mean p zero and into the p of.
ABCDE so it is dependent on itself.
ABC News Division Only ABC.
Plus for a day of running too deep of it, minus one.
But you're plus one B, minus one c, d.
Plus you do.
Into the appeal of e b less one B plus one c minus one in D lesbian three or introductory lets eight
b.
B.
We see empty NPD.
It is kind of deep.
E Come on, baby comma C plus one and B minus eight is our relation just starting the argument now.
What, what we can see here is that here we have.
It is dependent on the same.
Know, it's kind of self-regulation, basically.
So how do we solve this?
So for this, what I'll do is I'll take this on the left hand side.
And what will get?
It will get.
Debut of A, B, C, D is into one minus B note is equal to one B+, b, b, DP, this B+, b, c,
d, b, this plus b, d and BP eight.
I'm not writing it completely.
I think I just got it on the left hand side and that store on the right hand side.
So what is depicted here?
No.
It is equal to one place.
This is it.
Is this upon?
One minus B, not eight, then let's define what is not B, B, A, BBC, and b D So what is B the probability
of getting on a road?
Getting on a number of.
Getting on a dish with zero sushi, isn't it?
It is basically how much it is EBA and I'm taking ABC 2012348.
So B-Bbee is how much we buy in this season.
How much are C-Band and PD is how much?
Phoebe.
And so ABC raised a number of indexes with 0123 respective number of sources and by areas that prevented
a.
So if I try to solve this by replacing BDB, see all of these values, what I would get here is I simply
get.
BP of e b b e is equal to two writing psb, ba and eight let's editors by BBN.
In the SDP less.
You buy in into this deep, deep ocean.
Into this deep sea.
One plus.
One minus.
eBay.
And so here we can see that we have.
And is it included in both the numerator and denominator?
So let's cancel it out.
It's simplified.
It becomes an plus B into the P something plus C into the P something.
Let's dig into deep something over and minus a.
Well, this.
So now what it is.
So now we have like ABCD and we know that is kind of a dependent variable.
We can simply figure it out day by.
Same as it was to N minus B plus LSD eight.
This is equals to d, b, ab.
And I'm just not completing this inside part.
You can do it yourself.
Well, it's an easy thing to do.
Now let's call this records of an eight.
I hope this is very clear or.
Okay.
So let me quickly right the complete DP.
What is DB initially?
What will be my solution for this?
It will be the number of zeros, number of ones, two entries that are given in the edit eight.
So it is a, b, c, e is equals two and less.
Be into the epi.
But if what it does prevents me represents one bait.
So it says that it is a plus one B minus one C and D.
Plus being to the p, e, b plus one.
C minus one and B plus.
In the AP.
A, B, C plus one and B minus one.
And now complete we have and minus in the denominator, which is normal because of religion.
It's got it out quickly.
So yeah.